README.md, before:

# Debian/Ubuntu build and testing containers
This repository provides some scripts and a Docker setup to build Debian/Ubuntu packages out of the other perfSONAR source repositories.

This directoy needs to be at the same level as the other perfSONAR repositories that you want to build. The checked-out branch of the source repo will be built.  You'll also need the [distribution](https://github.com/perfsonar/distribution/) perfSONAR repository cloned at the same level as the source repositories, the setup currently uses the 5.0.0 branch of this distribution repository.

These scripts rely heavily on Docker and a working `docker buildx` setup.

## Build packages
To build a Debian/Ubuntu package, run something like:

./build-in-docker toolkit

* args understood (full list in script itself):
  * `-d` don't rebuild Docker images but use locally existing one
  * `-B` don't rebuild source package but use previously build one
  * `-D` debug build, will get you into a shell instead of doing the build
  * `-k` use and keep locally built packages (can be useful to solve build dependencies)
  * `-s` build only the source package

The resulting packages will be located in a new directory at the same level as the other repositories called `build_results`

The build will use the information from the `debian/gbp.conf` file to know on which distro the package should be built and with which perfSONAR repository the dependencies should be solved.

Once you have the `docker buildx` images ready, you can call all subsequent builds with `-d`.

There is provision to use a HTTP proxy to download packages if you need to do so.  See the examples below and in the scripts.

### Examples

* Building `perfsonar-graphs` located in the `../graphs` directory:
```
./build-in-docker graphs
```
* Building `perfsonar-graphs` a second time:
```
./build-in-docker -d graphs
```
* Building `perfsonar-graphs` to debug the binary build and keep the previously localy built packages:
```
./build-in-docker -dBD -k graphs
```
* Building `pscheduler-archiver-rabbitmq` using a local proxy:
```
proxy=172.17.0.1:3128 package=pscheduler-archiver-rabbitmq ./build-in-docker pscheduler
```

## Test packages
This project provides ways of testing installation of perfSONAR DEB package-based bundles on Debian-based systems using Docker containers.

Fully Supported:
 * Debian 9 Stretch
 * Debian 10 Buster
 * Ubuntu 18 Bionic Beaver
 * Ubuntu 20 Focal Fossa

To test the installation of a resulting package, run something like:

./test-in-docker package

The package will be installed in the different OS supported and for different architectures.

You can change the perfSONAR repository to be used or limit the number of OS to install to by using the `-r` and `-o` options.  See the help included in the script for all the options.

Commit message:

Compose V2 and Buildkit needs to be activated for our scripts to work.

README.md, after:

# Debian/Ubuntu build and testing containers
This repository provides some scripts and a Docker setup to build Debian/Ubuntu packages out of the other perfSONAR source repositories.

This directoy needs to be at the same level as the other perfSONAR repositories that you want to build. The checked-out branch of the source repo will be built.  You'll also need the [distribution](https://github.com/perfsonar/distribution/) perfSONAR repository cloned at the same level as the source repositories, the setup currently uses the 5.0.0 branch of this distribution repository.

These scripts rely heavily on Docker and a working `docker buildx` recent setup as they're making use of the Docker [Compose V2](https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command/) commands and [Buildkit](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/).  So make sure you activate both (how to activate those features depend on the host platform from which you are using Docker).

## Build packages
To build a Debian/Ubuntu package, run something like:

./build-in-docker toolkit

* args understood (full list in script itself):
  * `-d` don't rebuild Docker images but use locally existing one
  * `-B` don't rebuild source package but use previously build one
  * `-D` debug build, will get you into a shell instead of doing the build
  * `-k` use and keep locally built packages (can be useful to solve build dependencies)
  * `-s` build only the source package

The resulting packages will be located in a new directory at the same level as the other repositories called `build_results`

The build will use the information from the `debian/gbp.conf` file to know on which distro the package should be built and with which perfSONAR repository the dependencies should be solved.

Once you have the `docker buildx` images ready, you can call all subsequent builds with `-d`.

There is provision to use a HTTP proxy to download packages if you need to do so.  See the examples below and in the scripts.

### Examples

* Building `perfsonar-graphs` located in the `../graphs` directory:
```
./build-in-docker graphs
```
* Building `perfsonar-graphs` a second time:
```
./build-in-docker -d graphs
```
* Building `perfsonar-graphs` to debug the binary build and keep the previously localy built packages:
```
./build-in-docker -dBD -k graphs
```
* Building `pscheduler-archiver-rabbitmq` using a local proxy:
```
proxy=172.17.0.1:3128 package=pscheduler-archiver-rabbitmq ./build-in-docker pscheduler
```

## Test packages
This project provides ways of testing installation of perfSONAR DEB package-based bundles on Debian-based systems using Docker containers.

Fully Supported:
 * Debian 9 Stretch
 * Debian 10 Buster
 * Ubuntu 18 Bionic Beaver
 * Ubuntu 20 Focal Fossa

To test the installation of a resulting package, run something like:

./test-in-docker package

The package will be installed in the different OS supported and for different architectures.

You can change the perfSONAR repository to be used or limit the number of OS to install to by using the `-r` and `-o` options.  See the help included in the script for all the options.
